Investor Visa E-2

One of the best and most flexible types of work visa may be obtained through investment in the U.S. This type of visa is called the E-2 Investor Visa, and it is available to citizens of more than 74 different countries with which the U.S. has signed a bilateral treaty regarding investment. It is also possible for an investor to bring employees from his homeland to work for him in the U.S. business under an E-2 Manager Visa or E-2 Specialist Visa.



For any of these three visas, both the U.S. business and the individual must qualify.

In order for the U.S. business to qualify, it must:
belong at least 50% to a person with citizenship of a country having a qualifying investment treaty with the U.S.
be real and active by providing goods or services on a regular basis, and producing steady income, (e.g., the following investment activities would not qualify: investments in stocks, bonds, or mutual funds, or in undeveloped land for speculation, though, investment in multiple units of residential or commercial real estate may qualify).
be a substantial investment. While the laws and regulations do not state a specific minimum investment, typically an investments $50,000+ can qualify if it is sufficient to establish the business to the point of being able to operate effectively. The smaller the investment, the greater the percentage of the investment that must come from the investor’s own funds. For example, investments of less than $100,000 must typically come 100% from the investor’s own funds.
contribute to the local economy to an extent that is not just marginal. This requirement can be met by showing that within 5 years, the business will either hire U.S. workers, or it will be able to produce sufficient income to pay the investor a living wage and still produce a profit.

In order for the individual applicant to qualify:
the individual applicant must show that he/she has work experience and credentials, which qualify them to perform the job that the company is offering them. Qualifications are more important in the cases of managers and specialists than in the case of the investor.

There are two ways to apply to live and work in the U.S. as an E-2 Investor.

Generally, the preferred method is to apply to the consulate in the applicant’s place of residence for an E-2 visa, which, if approved, is issued for the period of time permitted under the treaty with that country. In some cases, this is five years, but in other cases, it may be a short as one month. Even if the visa is issued for just one month, the person can still enter the U.S. for a period of two years, and then extend their E-2 status for two years at a time an unlimited number of times.

If the person is present in the U.S. under most types of non-immigrant visas, the person can apply to change to E-2 status for a period of two years. If the person is in the U.S. under the Visa Waiver Program, the person must apply for the E-2 visa at the U.S. consulate in their country of residence.

Additional advantages of the E-2 visa:
The spouse of an E-2 visa holder can obtain a work authorization, and then work for any employer in any type of job.
Presently, there is no limit to the number of times an E-2 visa can be renewed.
The business activity of the investment company can be changed or expanded into new fields of business.















Intra-Company Transfer L-1

Foreigners who own a business in their home country, may establish a U.S. affiliate company, and obtain an L-1 manager visa to come to the U.S. and manage the U.S. business. Likewise, if they are a managerial or specialist employee of a multinational company, and are being transferred to an affiliate company located in the U.S., they may obtain an L-1 visa to work in the U.S.



An L-1 manager can maintain this visa for up to seven years, renewing in 2- to 3-year increments. An L-1 specialist can maintain the visa for up to 5 years, also renewing in 2- to 3-year increments.

To qualify for the L-1 visa, the following requirements must be met:
the foreign business must be an affiliate of the U.S. business. This is achieved through joint-ownership: one business owns the other, or the same individual has a controlling interest in both businesses, or the same group of individuals jointly hold a controlling interest in both businesses.
the L-1 manager must supervise multiple levels of workers in the U.S. company or else a specific function within the company. An L-1 specialist must have specialized, proprietary knowledge or skills from the foreign business which he is coming to teach to U.S. workers.
the L-1 manager or specialist must have worked at least one complete, continuous year out of the previous three years for the foreign business which is transferring him to the U.S.

A foreign worker can go about applying for the L-1 visa in one of two ways.

If the person is present in the U.S. in most types of valid non-immigrant status, he can apply to change to L-1 status from within the U.S. by applying to the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services (BCIS).

If the person is outside of the U.S., or is visiting the U.S. under the Visa Waiver Program (without a visa), the sponsoring employer must apply at the BCIS service center. Once the BCIS approves the petition, the foreign worker must apply to the U.S. consulate in the country of his residence.

Additional advantages of the L-1 visa:
The L-1 visa does not require any specific investment amount. An important requirement, though, particularly for maintaining an L-1 manager visa, is that the L-1 manager supervises several employees at multiple levels within the business, so that he is not seen as performing the everyday work of the business.
There is a specific green card category available for L-1 managers, which is called the EB-1 multinational manager green card. If an L-1 manager is highly qualified for the L-1 visa, he also has a good chance at obtaining the EB-1 multinational manager green card.
The spouse of an L-1 manager or specialist can obtain a work authorization to work for any employer in any type of job.
The L-1 visa holder can apply for the green card without worrying about his ability to renew his visa.







"Specialist" Worker/Professional H-1B

The primary work visa under which U.S. companies employ foreign workers is the H-1B visa. This visa is for professionals and workers in "specialty occupations". (It is possible for a foreign worker to form his own company in the U.S. that sponsors him for the H-1B visa).



The H-1B visa is usually granted for a period of 3 years, and can be renewed for another 3 years, but 6 years is the maximum number of years allowed under the H-1B visa without a 2-year stay back in the foreign worker’s home country.

The primary requirements for the H-1B visa are the following:
A U.S. business must offer the foreign worker a job which requires a specialist worker who holds a 4-year university degree or the equivalent in practical experience in the field. In determining whether practical experience is the equivalent of a 4-year university degree, 3 years of practical experience are considered the equivalent of one year of university education, and so a person who has not studied at the university would need 12 years of practical experience.
The U.S. business offering the job must also offer what is called "the prevailing wage". The prevailing wage is the average wage which workers in the same type of position are earning in the region where the U.S. business is located.
The foreign worker must have sufficient qualifications to fill the position. As mentioned above, the worker must have either a 4-year university degree in the same or similar field, 12 years of practical experience in the same or similar field, or else a combination of university studies and practical experience equal to a 4-year university degree in the same or similar field.

A foreign worker can go about applying for the H-1B visa in one of two ways.

If the person is present in the U.S. in most types of valid non-immigrant status, the person can apply to change to H-1B status from within the U.S. by applying to the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services (BCIS).

If the person is located outside of the U.S., or is visiting the U.S. under the Visa Waiver Program, then that person’s sponsoring employer must apply at the BCIS service center. Once the BCIS approves the petition, the foreign worker must apply to the U.S. consulate in the country of his residence.

Additional advantages of the H-1B visa:
The H-1B worker can petition for the green card without any concerns that he may encounter problems in trying to renew his visa.